Logstash Getting started with Kubernetes Guide (#14655)
elastic/logstash: docsk8s/quick-start/sample-configuration-files.asciidoc

You can download the files together as a link:https://github.com/elastic/logstash/blob/main/docsk8s/sample-files/logstash-k8s-qs.zip[zip archive].

> [[qs-setup-files]]

Reviewer: I don't think that a free-floating anchor actually does anything. This content starts right below the previous heading, so you don't need an additional heading. I don't think you need this anchor either.

These files are used to create certificates and keys required for secure communication between beats and logstash are included for illustration purposes only - in production, supply your own keys and certificates as appopriate.

`cert/generate_cert.sh`::
Generates the `ca.crt`, `client.key`, `client.crt`, `server.key`, and `server.pkcs8.key` used to establish a secure connection between Filebeat and Logstash. The certificates and keys are all contained in the `001-secret.yaml` file that is generated when you run `generate_cert.sh`.

`cert/openssl.conf`::
The OpenSSL Generated Server Certificate used for TLS communication between resources.

> This will create a secrets file `001-secret.yaml`, which we will install as part of the process to setup the elastic stack.

Author: We do in the quick start guide

            - name: logstash-config <8>
              mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/logstash.yml
              subPath: logstash.yml
            - name: es-certs <9>
              mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/es_ca.crt
              subPath: ca.crt
            - name: logstash-beats-tls
              mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/ca.crt
              subPath: ca.crt
            - name: logstash-beats-tls
              mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/server.pkcs8.key
              subPath: server.pkcs8.key
            - name: logstash-beats-tls
              mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/server.crt
              subPath: server.crt
      volumes:
        - name: logstash-pipeline <7>
          configMap:
            name: logstash-pipeline
        - name: logstash-config <8>
          configMap:
            name: logstash-config
        - name: es-certs <9>
          secret:
            secretName: demo-es-http-certs-public
        - name: logstash-beats-tls <10>
          secret:
            secretName: logstash-beats-tls
        - name: es-user <11>
          secret:
            secretName: demo-es-elastic-user
--

<1> Logstash docker image

> <2> If you want to change any JVM settings from the default - most commonly setting memory. allocations - prefer to set them in the `LS_JAVA_OPTS` environment variable than recreating the whole `jvm.options` file in a `ConfigMap`.

Author: I wonder if we reframing this as a general guide to setting up logstash, using the configuration files as context, rather than as the subject might make more sense here. And then we can split up in a more natural way rather than per file?

<9> `Volume` and `VolumeMount` definitions for certificates to use with Elasticsearch. This contains the CA certificate to output data to {es}. Refer to link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-tls-certificates.html[TLS certificates] in the {eck} Guide for details.
<10> `Volume` and `VolumeMount` definitions for certificates to use with Beats
<11> The {es} password is taken from `demo-es-elastic-user` and passed to the Logstash pipeline as an `ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD` environment variable. Refer to link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-request-elasticsearch-endpoint.html[Access the {es} endpoint] in the {eck} Guide for details.

[[qs-service]]
`003-service.yaml`::

> This file contains the Service definition, opening up ports on the logstash pods to the internal metricbeat (for stack monitoring) and filebeat in this instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
This file contains the Service definition, opening up ports on the logstash pods to the internal metricbeat (for stack monitoring) and filebeat in this instance
```

Reviewer: Global: Try adding `+`s throughout to keep code samples and text indented and aligned properly.

[source,yaml]
--
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
    - port: 9600 <1>
      name: "stats"
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 9600 <1>
    - port: 5044 <2>
      name: "beats"
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 5044 <2>
  selector:
    app: logstash-demo
--

<1> Opening up port `9600` for metricbeat to connect to the Logstash metrics API
<2> Opening up port `5044` for filebeat to connect to the beats input defined in the <<qs-configmap,ConfigMap>>

[[qs-additional-logstash-configuration]]

[[qs-autoscaler]]
`004-hpa.yml`::

> This sets up a horizontal pod autoscaler to scale logstash instances up and down, depending on the load on the logtash instance(s). See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/[kubernetes autoscaler docs] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
This sets up a horizontal pod autoscaler to scale logstash instances up and down, depending on the load on the logtash instance(s). See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/[kubernetes autoscaler docs] for more details.
```

      }
    }
    output {
      elasticsearch {
        hosts => ["https://demo-es-http:9200"]
        index => "kube-apiserver-%{+YYYY.MM.dd}"
        cacert => "/usr/share/logstash/config/es_ca.crt"
        user => 'elastic'
        password => '${ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD}'
      }
    }
---
# ConfigMap for logstash.yml definition
data:
  logstash.yml: | <2>
    api.http.host: "0.0.0.0"
--

<1> Definition of logstash configuration file. We will refer to this later in the deployment file, where we will define volumes.
<2> Definition of `logstash.yml` file (link to logstash.yml file).
Each key/value pair to override defaults will need to be defined here. This will be referred to later in the deployment file.

[[qs-secrets]]
`001-secrets.yaml`::

> Secrets file that should be created from certificates and key files - this is generated by the supplied script, but for your own configuration should contain the base64 encoded representations of your own certificates and keys

Author: I'm not sure if the suggestion changes the intent - the script is only intended for this use case, and would not be used when using your own certificates and keys. I'm not sure if the new text conveys that.

What about something like:
```suggestion
This secrets file includes certificates and key files required for secure communication between logstash and the rest of the {stack}. This example was generated by the supplied script, but for your own configuration it should contain the base64 encoded representations of your own certificates and keys
```

<9> `Volume` and `VolumeMount` definitions for certificates to use with Elasticsearch. This contains the CA certificate to output data to {es}. Refer to link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-tls-certificates.html[TLS certificates] in the {eck} Guide for details.
<10> `Volume` and `VolumeMount` definitions for certificates to use with Beats
<11> The {es} password is taken from `demo-es-elastic-user` and passed to the Logstash pipeline as an `ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD` environment variable. Refer to link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-request-elasticsearch-endpoint.html[Access the {es} endpoint] in the {eck} Guide for details.

[[qs-service]]
`003-service.yaml`::
+

> This file contains the Service definition, opening up ports on the logstash pods to the internal metricbeat (for stack monitoring) and filebeat in this instance

Author: I would prefer it to be there, or represented in some ways to distinguish between logstash pods and other types of pods that are running in the k8s cluster.

[source,yaml]
--
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
    - port: 9600 <1>
      name: "stats"
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 9600 <1>
    - port: 5044 <2>
      name: "beats"
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 5044 <2>
  selector:
    app: logstash-demo
--

<1> Opening up port `9600` for metricbeat to connect to the Logstash metrics API
<2> Opening up port `5044` for filebeat to connect to the beats input defined in the <<qs-configmap,ConfigMap>>

[[qs-additional-logstash-configuration]]

[[qs-autoscaler]]
`004-hpa.yml`::

+

> This sets up a horizontal pod autoscaler to scale logstash instances up and down, depending on the load on the logtash instance(s). See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/[kubernetes autoscaler docs] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file sets up a horizontal pod autoscaler to scale {ls} instances up and down, depending on the load on the {ls} instance(s). See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/[kubernetes autoscaler docs] for more details.
```

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: autoscaling/v2 <1>
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: logstash
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
spec:
  minReplicas: 1 <2>
  maxReplicas: 2
  behavior:
    scaleUp:
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 60 <3>
    scaleDown:
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 180
  scaleTargetRef:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: logstash <4>
  metrics:
    - type: Resource <5>
      resource:
        name: cpu
        target:
          type: Utilization
          averageUtilization: 80
    - type: Resource
      resource:
        name: memory
        target:
          type: Utilization
          averageUtilization: 80
--

> <1> Requires kubernetes `1.23` and up
> <2> Specify the maximum and minimum number of Logstashes desired for the cluster
> <3> Specify stabilization windows to avoid "flapping" the replica count, using a rolling
> <4> This refers to the `Deployment` created <<qs-deployment, earlier>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Requires {k8s} `1.23` and higher.
<2> Specifies the maximum and minimum number of Logstashes desired for the cluster.
<3> Specifies stabilization windows to avoid "flapping" the replica count, using a rolling
<4> `Deployment` created <<qs-deployment, earlier>>
```

> <4> This refers to the `Deployment` created <<qs-deployment, earlier>>

Reviewer: Commented and suggested on proper linking format. Text should be descriptive, not relative.

      - logstash:9600
    xpack.enabled: true
--
<1> Definition for logstash module, defined under `spec.config.metricbeat.modules`

[[qs-filebeat-configuration]]

`005-filebeat.yaml`::

> This includes the configuration required for a beat to communicate with Logstash - includes the logstash output definition, and makes the generated certs and key files from <<qs-secrets, the secrets file>> available to the beat to enable secure communication with Logstash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file includes the configuration required for a beat to communicate with {ls}.
It includes the {ls} output definition, and makes the generated certs and key files from <<qs-secrets, the secrets file>> available to the beat to enable secure communication with {ls}.
```
